README.md, before:

# Fufiters

[![Test Workflow](https://github.com/relativeorbit/fufiters/actions/workflows/nightly_test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/relativeorbit/fufiters/actions/workflows/nightly_test.yml)

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/742564947.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.15166765)

A combined InSAR, pixel-offsets workflow for measuring elevation change in Nepal using [Sentinel-1 Synthethic Aperture Radar bursts](https://asf.alaska.edu/datasets/data-sets/derived-data-sets/sentinel-1-bursts/)

See the following manuscript for a detailed application of this software to study degradation of the Imja Lake moraine dam in Nepal between 2017 and 2024: https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2024-3196

Note: since this workflow was developed, ASF has continued to update [hyp3-isce2](https://github.com/ASFHyP3/hyp3-isce2)  workflows, please consider if those meet your needs before using this repository.

## Design

Run a modified fork of `hyp3-isce2` (https://github.com/relativeorbit/hyp3-isce2) to generate an inventory of inteferograms *and* pixel offset maps for a given Sentinel-1 burst. Workflows are written using Python scripts and GitHub Actions for concurrent batch processing on Microsoft Azure.

[Resuable Workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows) are composed to run processing of a single image pair, to processing all pairs over all available years in parallel (Sentinel-1 acquisitions start in October 2014).

At a minimum you need to select a Sentinel-1 Burst. You can search for Burst IDs using [NASA Earthdata Search](https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/search/granules?p=C2450786986-ASF&pg[0][v]=f&pg[0][id]=*IW*&pg[0][gsk]=-start_date&g=G2453394254-ASF&q=burst&sb[0]=80.82422%2C26.11576%2C87.97852%2C30.47298&tl=1708033475.92!3!!&lat=25.619422925906335&long=78.22265625&zoom=5)

## Instructions

Install the [GitHub actions CLI](https://cli.github.com) in order to easily run workflows from the command line. Alternatively you can manually run workflows from the 'Actions' repository tab.

Note: you must be a member of this GitHub organization to run these workflows, or you can fork this repository and add your own secrets (see below).

#### Generate a single burst interferogram:

Use the full SLC names and specify the full burstId (`[Track]_[Burst]_[Subswath]`) that you want to process:

```
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_pair.yml \
  -f reference=S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190101T121401_20190101T121429_025284_02CBEB_65D7 \
  -f secondary=S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190113T121401_20190113T121429_025459_02D234_3311 \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```
Note: to select SLC names you can use https://search.asf.alaska.edu or use ASF's Python Client https://github.com/asfadmin/Discovery-asf_search

Optional inputs for all workflows:
```
nlooks=5x1 [20x4, 10x2]
polarization=VV [HH]
```

##### Run workflow locally (only works on Linux/MacOS Intel due to ISCE2 dependency)

You must first install a specific branch of `hyp3-isce2`, we recommend using [pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/installation/) to setup a reproducible (locked) environment:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/relativeorbit/hyp3-isce2.git
pixi shell --frozen

cd /tmp
python -m hyp3_isce2 ++process insar_tops_fufiters \
  S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190101T121401_20190101T121429_025284_02CBEB_65D7 \
  S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190113T121401_20190113T121429_025459_02D234_3311 \
  --burstId 012_023790_IW1 \
  --looks 20x4 \
  --apply-water-mask False
```

#### Generate a set of interferograms for a specific year

This workflow will do the search automatically and create 3 pairs for every acquisition date in a year (n+1, n+2, n+3 pairs).
```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_timeseries.yml \
  -f year=2023 \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```

#### Generate a set of interferograms for all years


This workflow will do the search automatically and create 3 pairs for every date (n+1, n+2, n+3 pairs). It uses a 'matrix job' such that processing sets of interferograms for each year runs in parallel.

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_pipeline.yml \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```

#### Generate a set of pixel offsets for all years

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run offsets_pipeline.yml \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```


#### Download artifacts

Note this particular workflow was run twice

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run list -w insar_pipeline.yml

STATUS  TITLE                     WORKFLOW        BRANCH  EVENT              ID          ELAPSED   AGE
✓       121_258662_IW2 VV 5x1 3   InSAR_Pipeline  main    workflow_dispatch  8072975855  23m26s    about 15 hours ago
✓       121_258661_IW2 VV 5x1 2   InSAR_Pipeline  main    workflow_dispatch  8055416864  1h29m41s  about 1 day ago
```

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run view 8072975855
```

```bash
# Download interferograms for a specific date
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2 --pattern "*20190813*"

# Specific artifact
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2 --name "20190720_20190813"

# All artifacts (may take a while!)
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2
```


## Configuration

* The workflow requires the following Actions secrets:
  * `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` & `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (for an IAM user that *only* has access to and S3 bucket)
  * `EARTHDATA_USERNAME` & `EARTHDATA_PASSWORD` (to download S1 Bursts from ASF DAAC https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov)
  * `ESA_USERNAME` & `ESA_PASSWORD` (to download Sentinel-1 precise orbits from https://dataspace.copernicus.eu)


* Persistant COG outputs are stored in an AWS S3 Bucket (configured here https://github.com/relativeorbit/pulumi-fufiters).

## Acknowledgments
[University of Washington eScience Winter Incubator 2024](https://escience.washington.edu/incubator-24-glacial-lakes/)

Commit message:

Revise README with new DOI and publication details
Updated DOI link and added publication citation for software application.

README.md, after:

# Fufiters

[![Test Workflow](https://github.com/relativeorbit/fufiters/actions/workflows/nightly_test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/relativeorbit/fufiters/actions/workflows/nightly_test.yml)

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.17466768.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17466768)

A combined InSAR, pixel-offsets workflow for measuring elevation change in Nepal using [Sentinel-1 Synthethic Aperture Radar bursts](https://asf.alaska.edu/datasets/data-sets/derived-data-sets/sentinel-1-bursts/)

An application of v1.0 of this software is detailed in the following publication. Please consider reading it to understand the motivation behind this project as well as lengthy discussion of the methodology and products generated by the workflow. If you use or have benefitted from this software, please cite this:

Brencher, G., Henderson, S. T., and Shean, D. E.: *Quantifying degradation of the Imja Lake moraine dam with fused InSAR and SAR feature tracking time series*, The Cryosphere, 20, 67–86, https://doi.org/10.5194/tc-20-67-2026, 2026.


## Design

**Note:** since this workflow was developed, ASF has continued to update [hyp3-isce2](https://github.com/ASFHyP3/hyp3-isce2)  workflows, please consider if those meet your needs before using this repository!

Run a modified fork of `hyp3-isce2` (https://github.com/relativeorbit/hyp3-isce2) to generate an inventory of inteferograms *and* pixel offset maps for a given Sentinel-1 burst. Workflows are written using Python scripts and GitHub Actions for concurrent batch processing on Microsoft Azure.

[Resuable Workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows) are composed to run processing of a single image pair, to processing all pairs over all available years in parallel (Sentinel-1 acquisitions start in October 2014).

At a minimum you need to select a Sentinel-1 Burst. You can search for Burst IDs using [NASA Earthdata Search](https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/search/granules?p=C2450786986-ASF&pg[0][v]=f&pg[0][id]=*IW*&pg[0][gsk]=-start_date&g=G2453394254-ASF&q=burst&sb[0]=80.82422%2C26.11576%2C87.97852%2C30.47298&tl=1708033475.92!3!!&lat=25.619422925906335&long=78.22265625&zoom=5)

## Instructions

Install the [GitHub actions CLI](https://cli.github.com) in order to easily run workflows from the command line. Alternatively you can manually run workflows from the 'Actions' repository tab.

Note: you must be a member of this GitHub organization to run these workflows, or you can fork this repository and add your own secrets (see below).

#### Generate a single burst interferogram:

Use the full SLC names and specify the full burstId (`[Track]_[Burst]_[Subswath]`) that you want to process:

```
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_pair.yml \
  -f reference=S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190101T121401_20190101T121429_025284_02CBEB_65D7 \
  -f secondary=S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190113T121401_20190113T121429_025459_02D234_3311 \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```
Note: to select SLC names you can use https://search.asf.alaska.edu or use ASF's Python Client https://github.com/asfadmin/Discovery-asf_search

Optional inputs for all workflows:
```
nlooks=5x1 [20x4, 10x2]
polarization=VV [HH]
```

##### Run workflow locally (only works on Linux/MacOS Intel due to ISCE2 dependency)

You must first install a specific branch of `hyp3-isce2`, we recommend using [pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/installation/) to setup a reproducible (locked) environment:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/relativeorbit/hyp3-isce2.git
pixi shell --frozen

cd /tmp
python -m hyp3_isce2 ++process insar_tops_fufiters \
  S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190101T121401_20190101T121429_025284_02CBEB_65D7 \
  S1A_IW_SLC__1SDV_20190113T121401_20190113T121429_025459_02D234_3311 \
  --burstId 012_023790_IW1 \
  --looks 20x4 \
  --apply-water-mask False
```

#### Generate a set of interferograms for a specific year

This workflow will do the search automatically and create 3 pairs for every acquisition date in a year (n+1, n+2, n+3 pairs).
```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_timeseries.yml \
  -f year=2023 \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```

#### Generate a set of interferograms for all years


This workflow will do the search automatically and create 3 pairs for every date (n+1, n+2, n+3 pairs). It uses a 'matrix job' such that processing sets of interferograms for each year runs in parallel.

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run insar_pipeline.yml \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```

#### Generate a set of pixel offsets for all years

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters workflow run offsets_pipeline.yml \
  -f burstId=012_023790_IW1
```


#### Download artifacts

Note this particular workflow was run twice

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run list -w insar_pipeline.yml

STATUS  TITLE                     WORKFLOW        BRANCH  EVENT              ID          ELAPSED   AGE
✓       121_258662_IW2 VV 5x1 3   InSAR_Pipeline  main    workflow_dispatch  8072975855  23m26s    about 15 hours ago
✓       121_258661_IW2 VV 5x1 2   InSAR_Pipeline  main    workflow_dispatch  8055416864  1h29m41s  about 1 day ago
```

```bash
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run view 8072975855
```

```bash
# Download interferograms for a specific date
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2 --pattern "*20190813*"

# Specific artifact
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2 --name "20190720_20190813"

# All artifacts (may take a while!)
gh -R relativeorbit/fufiters run download 8072975855 --dir /tmp/121_258662_IW2
```


## Configuration

* The workflow requires the following Actions secrets:
  * `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` & `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` (for an IAM user that *only* has access to and S3 bucket)
  * `EARTHDATA_USERNAME` & `EARTHDATA_PASSWORD` (to download S1 Bursts from ASF DAAC https://urs.earthdata.nasa.gov)
  * `ESA_USERNAME` & `ESA_PASSWORD` (to download Sentinel-1 precise orbits from https://dataspace.copernicus.eu)


* Persistant COG outputs are stored in an AWS S3 Bucket (configured here https://github.com/relativeorbit/pulumi-fufiters).

## Acknowledgments
[University of Washington eScience Winter Incubator 2024](https://escience.washington.edu/incubator-24-glacial-lakes/)
